---
layout: post
title: We've Got a New Look!
excerpt: The CIO Council wanted to make your experience better, so CIO.gov has a new look and feel. Take a look around. Explore our new features. Read more about how we worked to better meet your needs.
date: Sept. 27, 2019
display-date: 27 September 2019
author: CIO Council Operations
tags: cio-council 2019
image: 2019.09.01.david.pisnoy.paint.jpg
img-alt: Paint rollers by David Pisnoy

permalink: /new-look/
---

The new CIO.gov is now live! Launched in September 2019, the redesigned site hopes to improve user experience while leveraging the latest in best practice compliance, Federalist templates, and US Web Design System.

This past spring, the CIO Council Operations Team interviewed Council leadership and key stakeholders from the Office of Management and Budget and select agencies to better understand how to improve its legacy site. After validating our vision, we went to work.

CIO.gov is now organized from a customer-first perspective. Most notably:

* A fresh, compliant use of [US Web Design System](https://designsystem.digital.gov/) and [Federalist](https://federalist.18f.gov/) templates;
* Integrated links to social media;
* Popular topics more clearly available from the homepage;
* Popular Events & Programs more clearly available from navigation;
* New *BETA* Policy & Priority Catalog to browse CIO Council priorities;
* A more organized, living Resource Library, filterable by technology topic; and
* A landing page for the Council itself, including upcoming meetings and links to meeting agendas and materials.

We hope you like our redesigned site, and we’re relying on your feedback to make it even better. Our goal is to inform and better connect with you on Council activities.

Please contact us at [feedback@cio.gov](mailto:mailto:feedback@cio.gov) with questions or feedback.
