---
layout: post
title: The President’s Management Agenda - Celebrating One Year of Progress
excerpt: One year ago in Kansas City, MO, the Administration rolled out the President’s Management Agenda (PMA) as a long-term vision for modernizing the Federal Government. Today, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released a new update which looks back on a year of progress toward the ultimate goal of improving mission outcomes, service to the public, and stewardship of taxpayer dollars for the American people.
date: March 20, 2019
display-date: 20 March 2019
author: CIO Council Operations
tags: 2019 pma

image: 2019.03.20.PMA-circle-square.png
img-alt: PMA  One Year of Progress with colored gears

permalink: /2019/03/20/PMA-1-year-of-progress/
---
One year ago in Kansas City, MO, the Administration rolled out the [President’s Management Agenda (PMA)](https://trumpadministration.archives.performance.gov/PMA/PMA.html) as a long-term vision for modernizing the Federal Government. Today, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) released a new update which looks back on a year of progress toward the ultimate goal of improving mission outcomes, service to the public, and stewardship of taxpayer dollars for the American people.

The PMA advances change through three drivers -- technology, data, and the workforce -- and recognizes that cross-agency collaboration is essential to finding solutions to Government’s toughest problems. The Federal IT community is at the heart of all three drivers.

Key initiatives and actions driven by our community and highlighted in the update include:

<ul>
 <li>The Technology Modernization Fund has approved seven projects in five agencies totaling nearly $90 million to modernize legacy   technology by adopting commercial solutions and enhancing cybersecurity.</li>
<li>Agencies have accelerated migration to cloud email and collaboration services, with over 70% of CFO Act agency mailboxes migrated.</li>
<li>The CIO Council and Department of Education launched the first-ever Cyber Reskilling Academy, selecting a first cadre of 25 high-quality candidates from over 1,500 applicants. </li>
<li>USDS and OMB trained Contracting Officers to better understand and adopt technology industry language. </li>
</ul>

Click <a href="https://trumpadministration.archives.performance.gov/PMA/PMA.html">here to view</a> the new update President’s Management Agenda: Celebrating One Year of Progress.

The Federal IT community has played and will continue to play a key role in achieving a modern, more effective Government.  
