---
title: Council Programs and Events
subtitle: Federal Cyber Reskilling Academy
layout: page
description: The Federal Cybersecurity Reskilling Academy offers Federal employees the opportunity for hands-on training in cybersecurity, one of the fastest growing fields in the country.
permalink: /programs-and-events/reskilling/
---

# The Vision
The Federal Cybersecurity Reskilling Academy offered Federal employees the opportunity for hands-on training in cybersecurity, one of the fastest growing fields in the country. This reskilling effort was part of the Administration’s commitment to developing a Federal workforce of the 21st century, as outlined in the President's Management Agenda and the recent Government Reform Plan.

The inaugural class was made up of current Federal employees who do not work in the IT field and was designed to help them build foundational skills in the field of Cyber Defense Analysis. The second cohort was open to all Federal employees, including those working in IT.

# The Program
The Federal Cybersecurity Reskilling Academy was a series of professional development opportunities that provide cybersecurity training to Federal employees. The curriculum and exact training schedule varied by cohort, but every opportunity consisted of a mixture of direct instruction, hands-on learning and labs, and period assessments to track participants’ learning progress.

Additionally, Academy participants could complete extracurricular activities and exercises to enhance their learning and skills development, such as online games and cyber competitions. Participants received career mentorship and soft skills guidance to help them prepare for re-deploying into the cybersecurity workforce.

&nbsp;
